# 2025-08-24 - Matthew 2

## Passage
Matthew 2

## Summary
- Jesus was born in Bethlehem, and King Herod wanted to kill Him out of jealousy and insecurity.
- God, who is all-knowing, instructed Joseph through dreams to bring Jesus to Egypt, and later settle down in Nazareth.
- King Herod, in his rage, ordered all the male babies in Bethlehem to be killed.

## About God
- God is gracious because He gave us free will and a second chance to be with Him again.

## About People
- People can be easily blinded by fear, jealousy, or insecurity (like King Herod).

## To Christ
- Christ understands suffering and danger from the very beginning of His life.

## Application
- Don’t ever hold on to small or big sins (e.g. jealousy). A “small” sin can quickly grow and lead us into bigger evil and temptation. King Herod’s jealousy drove him to commit mass murder.
- Don’t underestimate the impact of sin. It’s like holding a corrosive chemical, we have to let go quickly, otherwise it will eat away our body and soul .
- Whether big or small, sin destroys us if we don’t let it go.

## Open Questions
- Why doesn’t God just change King Herod’s heart so Jesus’s journey would be smooth? 
-- (My reflection) That’s equivalent to asking: Why doesn’t God remove all evil people? But I am also a sinner. If God were to do that, no human could survive.

## Personal Experiences
- Recently I asked some friends, “Have you ever hurt anyone or done anything wrong in life?” My friends said, “No, never.” I was shocked, because I know I have made many mistakes, even till today. My friends wanted me to share my examples, but when I did, they didn’t see those as sins... They thought they were small matters. They even said, “If we count those small things, then everyone will have too many wrongs.”
- I couldn’t forget this conversation. It reminded me: if people don’t even realize their wrongs, how can they repent or correct themselves? Some people live by the motto “YOLO, don’t overthink, just be happy.” But as Christians, we are called to live differently, to recognize sin, repent, and pursue holiness.
- There are so many different values promoted by the world. But we as Christians must hold on to what is right and not conform to the world.

## Prayer
- Lord, help me overcome jealousy and insecurity before they take root in my heart.
- Give me wisdom when I talk with people who hold different worldviews. Help me to share truth with humility, without looking down on them or feeling self-righteous.

## Feelings
I read Matthew 2 more than 5 times today. The first time I didn’t have many thoughts, but when I listened to the audio version, it stirred up more and more questions. As I listened, I realized my current situation is similar to King Herod: battling with jealousy, insecurity, and sometimes falling into a victim mindset.

I’m really thankful to have the privilege to read the Scripture, otherwise I might only realize my sins too late.